Once we have Docker Toolbox installed,
we can get directly to the Kitematic tool that showed earlier,
but we can also get to the Docker quickstart terminal.
And this is a terminal window, a command line window,
that you can get to to interact with Docker tools such as docker‑machine.
Now what I normally do is drag and drop this down to my doc,
and you'll see already have it here.
So I'm going to close this one.
We'll come on down and open it up.
And the first time this fires up,
if your virtual machine is not running, your VirtualBox
machine that Docker Toolbox and stalls,
then it's going to go ahead and run a machine,
and it's going to give it a name of default.
You'll see that right here.
And it's going to take a moment to start this machine up.
Now from here,
it's going to copy over some certificates and do some other configuration.
And once you get to the nice little whale image,
you'll know that Docker is now configured as it says
to use this machine called default,
and it even gives you the IP address of the machine
that VirtualBox is actually hosting.
So what is default?
Well,
default is our VirtualBox Linux machine that we're actually
going to be issuing Docker commands against.
But before we do that,
the first thing you want to do is make sure that your terminal
window is linked up to the proper machine.
Now ours obviously is because I have my default
machine is all wired up here it says.
And once that's done, we can start working with these machines and using them.
So one of the key things you'll want to know about
is things like the IP address.
And you'll see that, yeah, you can see it here.
But as you start issuing commands or maybe you type clear and clear it all out,
you might forget what that is.
So there's a couple ways we can get the IP address of the running
machine that is hosting our Linux server in this case.
And one of those is we can say docker‑machine ls.
And the ls command will automatically let us know all the machines that are
running on this particular box on my development machine.
Looks like I have one called default.
It's running through VirtualBox.
It's up and running, and there's the IP you can see.
If I just wanted to get the IP address though,
I could say docker‑machine ip for the name of the machine.
Now you would have to know the name by default.
It's called default.
But you can create other machines as well.
Now we're not going to do that.
We'll just use the default machine in this course,
but it is possible to create others.
So I'm going to hit Enter, and you'll notice I can get the IP address.
Now, likewise, if I just want to get the status,
you'll see the state which is running.
And if I want to get it for a particular machine,
we could say docker‑machine, give me the status for default,
and it's up and running.
Now from here, I can also start and stop machines.
Now this one is obviously already started,
but we could say docker‑machine stop default.
And this will take a moment to run,
but this will actually shut down the running virtual machine.
And typically, if I'm not using Docker on a particular day, I will shut it down.
You'll see it was pretty quick to do this because that'll free up some
memory on your machine if you happen to need it.
But a lot of the time I'll just leave it up because I'm
jumping in and out of Docker throughout the day when I'm on
a particular development project.
Now we can also say docker‑machine start default,
and this will now start the machine back up.
Now, once again, when you run the quickstart terminal,
if it's not already started up, it'll start it up for us.
So you kind of don't have to use the start as much.
But every now and then you might shut it down yourself
and then want to manually restart it.
Now while this is running,
I'm going to go ahead and open up just a regular command terminal window here.
All right, so I already have my running Docker Machine one,
but I'm going to do just a new window.
Now because I didn't use the quickstart terminal,
it didn't run any of the early shell scripts that
kick us into the world of Docker.
I'm just in normal terminal mode.
In fact,
let me just make this a little bigger so we don't get
confused by the one in the background.
And now let's go ahead and try to do something like
docker‑machine ip of default.
And you'll notice I can get to that, but if I start to run commands,
and we'll learn about some of these Docker client
commands a little later in this module, but I'm going to do one called docker ps,
and you'll notice I get an error. Cannot connect to the Docker daemon.
Is the docker daemon running on this host?
And might, the first time you see this, do what I did and go well,
wait a sec, I know the virtual machine is running,
so what's the problem here?
Well, if you go through the quickstart terminal,
you probably won't have to do this.
But if you want to either A, configure a different terminal to use the
default machine so that you can issue Docker commands against it such as
this ps, ps would list all of our containers,
by the way,
but we'll learn about that coming up, or B, we might want to hook this
terminal up to a different machine other than default.
What we can do is wire up this terminal to the machine that we want to
issue Docker commands against. And the way we can do that is through
another command called docker‑machine env.
And then if I just do this, we'll get an error.
But we have to tell it the machine name.
So we'll say default.
And what this will do is add some‑‑‑ You'll see kind of
variables here, into our environment variables.
And then it's going to say run this command to configure your
shell. Now when we ran the quickstart terminal,
it's already doing this behind the scenes to hook us up to the
default because that's the one you get out of the box.
But if I wanted to either hook up to a different machine,
then I could have said docker‑machine environment whatever
that other machine is, my machine maybe.
And then what you have to do is run this eval command.
So you literally just copy this, paste it down, and then run that.
And now when I run docker show me all the containers, which is the ps
command, you'll notice that at least it works. Now I don't have any.
We'll be doing that shortly. So that's a really,
really nice tip that I know I struggled with initially when I got into Docker
because I didn't realize that you had to hook up the terminal window if you
didn't use the Docker quickstart terminal anyway to the actual machine that
you want to issue the commands against.
So that's a quick look at the docker env command as well.
All right, so now we've seen several of the commands.
You can actually list all of them by saying docker‑machine and just hit Enter,
and this will list all of the different commands that we have available.
You'll see there's quite a list here.
A lot of stuff you can do,
but we're now kind of going over the key ones, the environment command,
the ip, the status, the ls, the start and the stop.
You can even restart a machine. Very similar, just
docker‑machine restart default.
And there's even ways you can create new machines.
If you wanted to have different versions of Linux
or something like that running,
then potentially you could create a different machine if you'd like.
So that's a look at some of the key Docker commands that you can run that
are specific to Docker Machine. And again, Docker Machine is part of the
Docker Toolbox that we've already installed,
and now we have that up and running. And we can now interact with that machine, and that's what it looks like from a Mac standpoint.